=================
Features
=================

The schematic editor is divided into 3 panes. The left pane consists of the ``Component List`` and a facility to search components. The middle pane consists of the grid on which the components will be dropped and the circuit will be designed. The right pane consists of the grid properties, description of the circuit, and components position. More details are given below.

Component categories
####################
The kicad components are categorized as follows, where each component has ``Name``, ``Description``, ``Keywords``, and ``Datasheet``. 

* Analog	
* Device
* Triac_Thyristor
* Transistor_IGBT
* Diode
* Transistor_FET
* pspice
* Oscillator
* eSim_Sources
* eSim_Hybrid
* Motor
* LED
* Transistor_BJT
* power
* 4xxx

Searching Component
###################
Rather than going through categories and locating the component symbol, one can also search a component by typing in the textbox given, using the filters like ``Name``, ``Keyword``, ``Description``, ``Component Library``, and ``Prefix``.

Grid size and Orientation
#########################
The size of the grid can be changed from A1 to A5 and offers Portrait and Landscape mode

Components Position
###################
Using the this box, one can access and view the circuit which do not fit onto the specified grid size. Its like accessing another page. This situation arises when one has a large circuit and changes the grid from a larger size to a smaller one. 

Schematic Description
#####################
A text area in which one can write the description about the circuit.

Basic Editor Operations
#######################
The following basic editor functions are supported:

* Undo 
* Redo 
* Delete
* Zoom in 
* Zoom out 
* Default size 
* Rotate
* Print
* Clear All: Clear the schematic drawn

Gallery
#######
Sample circuits are available in the gallery for anyone to refer and use. These circuits can be opened, saved, and simulated.

Saving and Re-Opening
#####################
The circuits are saved only of an authenticated user and are viewed on the user dashboard. The same can be reopened as well for further editing.

Dashboard
#########
A  place  where  the  authenticated  user  can  view  the  different  circuits  designed  by him/her. Then user can open the saved circuit into the editor by clicking on ``Launch in Editor``.

Export 
######

* Image: The circuit can be exported as ``jpeg``, ``png``, and ``svg``. This is useful for documenting and printing.
* JSON: The circuit can be exported as ``JSON`` so as to open it again using the Upload feature.  

Open Schematic
##############
The schematic can be opened using the following methods:

* Uploading file: One needs to upload the file in ``JSON`` format i.e. which was exported using this tool.
* Local: The circuits saved by the authenticated user.
* Gallery: The sample circuits available in the gallery for anyone to refer.


ERC Check
#########
Basic ERC check is done for simulating a circuit. For example, if the wires are connected or not.

Generate Netlist
################
Based on the circuit a netlist is generated. The internal process of generating a netlist was described in the previous section.

Simulate
########
There are four simulation modes as follows

* DC Solver: A DC simulation attempts to find a stable DC solution of your circuit.

* DC Sweep: A DC Sweep will plot the DC solution of your circuit across different values of a parameter of a circuit element. You can sweep any numerical parameter of any circuit element in your circuit.

* Transient Analysis: A Transient analysis does a Time-Domain Simulation of your circuit over a certain period of time.

* AC Analysis: AC Analysis does a small signal analysis of your circuit. The input can be any voltage source or current source.

Sharing
#######
Using the ``Share`` button one can share the circuit with others using the link generated by the system. The link can be opened and viewed by anyone. However, to make changes one would need to login and the changes saved will be associated with the new user.

Spice simulator
###############
Using the spice simulator one can type the netlist in the code editor box and simulate it. Simulation result window will popup displaying the result.

Note: Add ``> data.txt`` at the end of the control line.

    .. code::

        .control
        run
        print all > data.txt
        .endc
        .end
